# tomotoleaf-disease-detection-using-CNN
The objective of this project is to create convolutional neural network model and detect   the disease of the tomato leaf. 
Agriculture is a major source of income for India's economy. Plant diseases contribute to production loss, which can be combated with continual monitoring. Plants are an important source of food for the global population. Plant diseases generate significant production and economic losses, as well as a reduction in agricultural product quality and quantity. Plant disease monitoring by hand is time-consuming and prone to mistakes. Tomatoes are the most widely consumed vegetable in India. Early disease diagnosis is crucial in order to reduce future losses. A Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) with two convolutions and two max-pooling layers, as well as one flattening layer followed by two fully connected layers, is used in this study to diagnose tomato plant leaf disease. Images of tomato leaves with nine illnesses and healthy samples were used to confirm the findings. The images are segmented using image scaling, color thresholding, and flood filling techniques. Pre-trained models, such as VGG16, VGG19, and Resnet 50, are imported and changed according to our classification problem using the notion of transfer learning. In the tomato crop, nine of the most common leaf illnesses and one healthy leaves were chosen for categorization. The proposed model has an average accuracy of 91.2 percent for the nine disorders and one healthy class. By the end of the research, participants will be able to predict tomato leaf disease.
